= Loggable

Loggable is a gem that's designed to add a logging interface to classes that don't 
automatically support it.

This is a fork of {vigetlabs/loggable}[http://github.com/vigetlabs/loggable] with two minor changes:

1) It uses the Rails default logger if it's available

2) defaults to using STDOUT if you don't tell it otherwise

In short, it lets you set up a logger with _even less_ code than the vigetlabs logger.

== Installation

Stable:

  sudo gem install mediashelf-loggable

== Usage

=== The Super Lazy Way

Using the Gem is super easy, just include the Logger module into any of your classes

  require 'rubygems'
  require 'loggable'

  class MyClass
    include Loggable
  end

Now, any class or instance methods have access to a logger:

    class MyClass
      def self.do_something
        logger.debug 'doing something in the class'
      end
      
      def do_something
        logger.debug 'doing something in an instance'
      end
    end
    
If this code is running within a Rails app that has RAILS_DEFAULT_LOGGER set up, it will use that.  Otherwise, it will create a standard Ruby logger that prints to STDOUT.

=== When You Need More Control...

If you want to have more control (ie. you want to save logs to a file), you can manually assign a  logger to your class:

    require 'rubygems'
    require 'logger'
    require 'loggable'

    class MyClass; end
  
    MyClass.logger = Logger.new('debug.log')

Now, any class or instance methods have access to the logger:

    class MyClass
      def self.do_something
        logger.debug 'doing something in the class'
      end
      
      def do_something
        logger.debug 'doing something in an instance'
      end
    end

The above code will write into the log file when called:

    MyClass.do_something
    MyClass.new.do_something

    debug.log:
  
    D, [2008-04-24T20:37:32.273930 #25821] DEBUG -- : doing something in the class
    D, [2008-04-24T20:37:32.274062 #25821] DEBUG -- : doing something in an instance

== Removing Logger Functionality

Calling the <tt>logger=</tt> class method to assign a logger to the class will 
trigger the methods necessary to start logging messages.  If you want to turn off 
logging temporarily (without removing the logging statements from your class), 
comment out the line where you assign the new logger.  By default, the logger is
stubbed out, so any calls to methods on it will just return nil.

== Credits

Copyright (c) 2008 Patrick Reagan of Viget Labs (mailto:patrick.reagan@viget.com)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
